---
layout: post
---
I've been using Parallels ever since it first came out. I've been very pleased with the ability to run the 3 or 4 Windows applications that I use without having to reboot out of OS X. The cost is acceptable because performance degradation is not very noticeable, especially considering that virtualized applications still run faster than my desktop PC.

Even with Parallels version 3.0, there are some major issues that prompted me to try VMWare Fusion again; I had tried betas in the past and was hopeful that their RTM would be solid. The biggest problem with Parallels is keyboard handling. The big show-stopper was the F11 key not functioning properly. This is a huge problem for me since I use Visual Studio on a regular basis. F11 and Shift-F11 are used for debugging, specifically to 'step into' and 'step out of' functions. I was able to finally get F11 with hints from the following:

"Anyone using Visual Studio in Parallels":http://weblogs.asp.net/jeff/archive/2006/07/20/Anyone-using-Visual-Studio-in-Parallels-on-a-MacBook-Pro_3F00_.aspx
"Parallels Support Forum":http://forum.parallels.com/showthread.php?t=18198

But this one I didn't try yet:

"Enable access for assistive devices":http://forum.parallels.com/archive/index.php/t-6546.html

I also saw "reports":http://www.iunknown.com/2007/06/vmware_fusion_r.html that even the pre-release of Fusion was performing better than Parallels. So, I just downloaded the 30-day evaluation of Fusion; I'm pleased!

First off, the keyboard works perfectly with Fusion. But it didn't come without its own set of problems. It was an extremely easy migration from Parallels to Fusion. I think the reason for this, in my case, is that I'm running my VM on the Boot Camp partition; no need for any kind of conversions. However, when I first booted in my Windows XP guest from Fusion, I couldn't enter my password into the login dialog box. In fact, the keyboard was completely unresponsive. Apparently this is a "known issue":http://communities.vmware.com/message/616384#616384 by the VMWare folks. It turns out that I was running an app in the background that was using the "SecureInput API":http://developer.apple.com/documentation/Carbon/Reference/Carbon_Event_Manager_Ref/Reference/reference.html#//apple_ref/c/func/EnableSecureEventInput, which is also used by Fusion to process keyboard input. The problem is that many Mac OS X apps don't use this interface correctly, as was the case with "Last.fm":http://www.last.fm/, which I had running in the background. Apple recommends that apps "play nicely":http://developer.apple.com/technotes/tn2007/tn2150.html with each other. So, as soon as I killed Last.fm, my keyboard worked perfectly inside the guest. Problem #1 solved.

Next I wanted to see if their 'Unify' functionality was similar to the 'Coherence' mode that Parallels offers. I must say, given that this is VMWare's first foray into VMs on the Mac at least, they seem to be just as far along (if not more so) as 3rd version of Parallels. This is probably due to VMWare's long running experience with VM technology in general. I would imagine that porting their system to the Mac wasn't as hard as Parallels having to develop it from scratch. So Unify works great, except for a few nitpicks.

I use "QuickSilver":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quicksilver_%28software%29 to enable me to launch applications very quickly. Unfortunately, I was not able to get this to work nicely for launching Windows applications as I did with Parallels. One of the nice things Parallels does is export all of the Windows applications that it finds within the guest as a set of aliases in a directory on the host. This allows me to make a custom catalog in QuickSilver to point to this directory. Unify has a nice little Launch window, by using Cmd-L, but this just isn't as fast as QuickSilver. Also, I found that getting to the Start Menu is sometimes necessary. I don't want to have the Windows task-bar shown; I prefer the Mac dock. I have trouble trying to get to the Start Menu quickly from a 'Unify'-ed running app.

Aside from a few other minor gripes, I'd have to say Fusion is looking in good shape right now. Performance does seem to be a bit better, AND the guest actually has access to both cores! I have yet to determine whether this is actually better or not. It's possible that letting the guest use both cores will actually degrade overall performance because the context switching overhead is most assuredly more expensive for virtual-threads than for native ones.

So for now, I'm using Fusion in full-screen mode. All is well, let's see how long that lasts.