---
layout: post
title: OpenSSL.NET version 0.5 released
---
h4. OpenSSL.NET - Managed wrapper for the OpenSSL toolkit
"http://openssl-net.sourceforge.net":http://openssl-net.sourceforge.net

I'm pleased to announce the release of version 0.5 of OpenSSL.NET.

h4. Description

A managed OpenSSL wrapper written in C# for the 2.0 .NET Framework that handles both the Crypto library and the SSL library. This a must for .NET developers that need crypto but don't want to use Microsoft's SSPI. This wrapper is based on version 1.0.0 of @libeay32.dll@ and @ssleay32.dll@.

h4. Download

You can download a pre-built binary for win32 using the following link:
"http://sourceforge.net/projects/openssl-net/files/openssl-net/0.5/openssl-net-0.5-win32.zip/download":http://sourceforge.net/projects/openssl-net/files/openssl-net/0.5/openssl-net-0.5-win32.zip/download

In addition, source code is available via git under the New BSD License:
@git://github.com/flaub/openssl-net.git@

Or you can grab a source tarball here:
"http://sourceforge.net/projects/openssl-net/files/openssl-net/0.5/openssl-net-0.5-src.tar.gz/download":http://sourceforge.net/projects/openssl-net/files/openssl-net/0.5/openssl-net-0.5-src.tar.gz/download

Preliminary support for mono has been added and has been tested on debian x64 and Mac OS X 10.5.

h4. Changes since 0.4

0.5 [Mar 29, 2012]

* Breaking change: SSL API has been moved to its own namespace.
* Bug fixes reported on sourceforge.
* Adding Elliptic Curve support.
* Conversion of tests to NUnit.

0.5-rc2 [Feb 26, 2012]

* Updating linux and osx native libraries to version 1.0.0g
* Working around a few 64-bit issues found on Linux under Mono.

0.5-rc1 [Apr 14, 2011]

* Updating OpenSSL native library to version 1.0.0d
* Using Visual Studio 2010 project files 
  (I don't have the old versions of VS installed anymore)
* Removing EVP_md2(), the native library no longer includes this by default

0.4.4 [Jan 18, 2010]

* Added support for i2d_X509_bio() which allows for writing X509
  certificates in DER format.

0.4.3 [Oct 23, 2009]

* Added support for PKCS12_create().

0.4.2 [Oct 23, 2009]

* Replacing the prebuilt binaries for libeay32.dll and ssleay32.dll with
  ones that come directly from the openssl source. This should fix
  problems people are finding in the wild, but it will also require
  them to install the MSVC 2008 CRT first.

0.4.1 [Sep 9, 2009]

* Including prebuilt binaries to libeay32.dll and ssleay32.dll that are
  statically linked to the CRT instead of depending on the DLL CRT. 
  This should resolve the DllNotFoundException at startup.
  
